In the spring and summer there's a brand new
civil war in Asia!
It's in a place you've probably never heard
of before, and the eye-witness reports are
all in some language you probably can't understand.
Some news reports say there are 30,000 refugees,
some say 60,000, but good luck finding even
a single western reporter on the ground, anywhere
near the conflict.
Did you read about it in the newspaper?
Not likely.
Let's face it, the days when reporters would
walk through a minefield just to stand next
to a gunfight holding a notepad and a microphone
are long gone.
The mainstream media maintains fewer and fewer
bureaus in major cities like Baghdad and Washington;
they don't have the budget to send reporters
to remote areas to cover unpopular wars.
Instead, the only way you can get reliable
information about civil wars in poverty-stricken
countries is to donate money to strangers
on the internet --and, for some reason, the
recipients tend to be the white, western and
university-educated (not the refugees themselves).
That's why we've formed the Foreign Observers
of Lesser Known Conflicts in Asia --or, F.O.L.K.C.A.--
to receive your donations.
What will we do with those donations?
We'll provide exactly the service that the
mainstream media have been failing to deliver
on.
Spending the vast majority of your money on
travel expenses, lobbying and "awareness raising"
activities.
Reporting from the hotel room and pretending
we're on the front lines.
Quoting government officials as if they were
refugees, soldiers or other eye-witness sources.
Interviewing English-speaking local in cafés,
and reporting rumors as facts.
Cynical posturing.
Grandstanding.
Original research.
You're probably wondering how this kind of
"citizen journalism" will make a positive
difference for the people actually suffering
on the ground.
It's simple!
Step one: it all begins with donations from
viewers like you!
Step two: those donations get spent generating
hype in the media, and this leads to "public
awareness", but, more importantly, lobbying
politicians, with the politicians themselves
pandering to the same media hype.
The final outcome is increasing C.I.A. and
military intervention from the United States
and its partners.
If you don't believe that it works, just consider:
the hype surrounding the "Kony 2012" campaign
resulted in the U.S. increasing its military
budget from the tens of millions to the hundreds
of millions of dollars!
So, if you think the military-industrial complex
doesn't respond to public opinion, think again!
This civil war just started in February of
2015, so get in on the ground floor now, before
it's too late… to help someone.
Your donations won't save lives, but they
will encourage military spending on a conflict
that Americans don't know about, don't care
about, and that the press probably won't even
be asking about a few years from now.
Remember, you can't trust what you don't understand,
so when your donations pay for citizen journalism,
you're paying for someone slightly less ignorant
than yourself, to educate the public on your
behalf.